Blog post: Securely direct traffic from IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service Ingress to Istio Ingress Gateway (#5098)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2019/alb-ingress-gateway-iks/index.md

be accessed by clients through the ALB, while ALB directly communicates with `service B`. `service A` can be also
accessed by clients through ALB, but in this case the traffic has to pass through the Istio ingress gateway. Mutual
TLS authentication between ALB and the gateway is based on the certificates provided by IKS.
The clients can also access the Istio ingress gateway directly. IKS registers different DNS domains for ALB and for the
ingress gateway.

{{< image width="100%" link="./alb-ingress-gateway.svg" caption="A cluster with ALB and Istio ingress gateway" >}}

## Initial setting

1.  Create the `httptools` namespace and enable Istio sidecar injection:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace httptools
    $ kubectl label namespace httptools istio-injection=enabled
    namespace/httptools created
    namespace/httptools labeled
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Deploy the `httpbin` sample to `httptools`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ -n httptools
    service/httpbin created
    deployment.apps/httpbin created
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Require mutual TLS for the traffic to the services in

Reviewer: Require -> Enforce

Author: Done in https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/5098/commits/c0eeaba55db65f72e083eb49f7773f69c7a4f800.

    {{< /text >}}

1.  Download the issuer certificate of the [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) certificate, which is the
    issuer of the certificates provided by IKS.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl https://letsencrypt.org/certs/trustid-x3-root.pem --output trustid-x3-root.pem
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Append the issuer certificate of [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) to the certificate of ingress gateway
    (currently required for ALB):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat ingress_gateway_certs/tls.crt trustid-x3-root.pem > trusted.crt
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create Kubernetes secrets to be used by Istio ingress gateway and ALB to establish mutual TLS between them. Note
    that the name of the secrets for the Istio ingress gateway must be exactly as in the commands.

    {{< warning >}}
    The certificates provided by IKS expire every 90 days and are automatically renewed by
    IKS 37 days before they expire.
    You will have to recreate the secrets by rerunning the instructions of this section every time the secrets provided
    by IKS are updated. You may want to use scripts or operators to automate this and keep the

>     secrets in sync.

Reviewer: Does SDS ingress gateway mode make this any  easier?

Author: SDS ingress gateway will not help with copying since it can only access the secrets in the namespace of the gateway. In this case, the secrets are generated by IKS in the default namespace, while the gateway is in `istio-system`.

Reviewer: Agreed, thanks for clarifying it.

    {{< /warning >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret tls istio-ingressgateway-certs --key ingress_gateway_certs/tls.key --cert trusted.crt
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret generic istio-ingressgateway-ca-certs --from-file=trustid-x3-root.pem
    $ kubectl create secret generic alb-certs -n istio-system --from-file=trusted.crt --from-file=alb_certs/client.crt --from-file=alb_certs/client.key
    secret "istio-ingressgateway-certs" created
    secret "istio-ingressgateway-ca-certs" created

>     secret "alb-certs" created

Reviewer: maybe a follow up blog - would be good to see steps with SDS gateway.

Author: I can write a follow-up blog, but it is a pretty simple transformation from file-mounted certificates to the SDS provided one.

Reviewer: I think it would be good, since there are a lot of interest with SDS gateway.

    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: default-ingress-gateway
    spec:
      selector:
        istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
      servers:
      - port:
          number: 443
          name: https
          protocol: HTTPS
        tls:
          mode: MUTUAL
          serverCertificate: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.crt
          privateKey: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.key
          caCertificates: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-ca-certs/trustid-x3-root.pem
        hosts:
        - "*"
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1. Configure routes for traffic entering via the `Gateway`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: VirtualService
    metadata:
      name: default-ingress
    spec:
      hosts:
      - "*"
      gateways:
      - default-ingress-gateway
      http:
      - match:
        - uri:
            prefix: /status
        route:
        - destination:
            port:
              number: 8000
            host: httpbin.httptools.svc.cluster.local
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Delete the Istio Ingress Gateway's pod to reload the certificates:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ kubectl delete pod -l istio=ingressgateway -n istio-system

Reviewer: this is where SDS makes it easier.

Author: right

    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send a request to `httpbin` by _curl_, passing as parameters the client certificate
    (the `--cert` option) and the private key (the `--key` option):

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ curl https://$INGRESS_GATEWAY_DOMAIN/status/418 --cert alb_certs/client.crt  --key alb_certs/client.key

Reviewer: is user supposed to run the curl cmd from their laptop or ssh into a pod?

Author: from the laptop, to access the service through the ingress gateway

Reviewer: SG

certificate stored in the `alb-certs` secret.

1.  Configure the `Ingress` resource for ALB. You must create the `Ingress` resource in the `istio-system` namespace in
    order to forward the traffic to the Istio ingress gateway.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Ingress
    metadata:
      name: alb-ingress
      namespace: istio-system
      annotations:
        ingress.bluemix.net/ssl-services: "ssl-service=istio-ingressgateway ssl-secret=alb-certs"
    spec:
      tls:
      - hosts:
        - httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN
        secretName: $ALB_SECRET
      rules:
      - host: httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN
        http:
          paths:
          - path: /status
            backend:
              serviceName: istio-ingressgateway
              servicePort: 443
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Test the ALB ingress:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl https://httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN/status/418

    -=[ teapot ]=-

       _...._
     .'  _ _ `.
    | ."` ^ `". _,
    \_;`"---"`|//
      |       ;/
      \_     _/
        `"""`
    {{< /text >}}

> Congratulations! You configured the IKS Ingress ALB to securely send traffic to Istio ingress gateway.

Reviewer: I think it would be good to recap and explain how the traffic is mTLS among the IKS ALB to istio ingress gateway.  Basically, for istio ingress gateway, the istio ingress gateway is configured with certs/keys from the ALB domain.  For ALB, user has to append the issuer certificate of [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) to the certificate of ingress gateway so the ingress gateway can validate key/certs from ALB.  Further, from the ALB you direct traffic to istio-ingress gateway at path /status.

Author: Done in https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/5098/commits/e6307814cc8f1a640f6ad8461994f9573c018f46

---
title: Securely direct traffic from IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service Ingress to Istio Ingress Gateway
description: Configure the IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service Application Load Balancer to direct traffic to Istio Ingress gateway with mutual TLS.
subtitle: Configure the IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service Application Load Balancer to direct traffic to Istio Ingress gateway with mutual TLS

> publishdate: 2019-11-07

Reviewer 2: does this need to be changed?

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/5098/commits/29a21c0cef9de5b6c20d1f4eeb555c1b40be7d81.

Author: And also by https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/5098/commits/e93de4dad9242e433c149eccd1a267e8f252604d.

attribution: Vadim Eisenberg (IBM)
keywords: [traffic-management,ingress,file-mount-credentials,iks]
---

> In this blog post I show how to configure the [Ingress Application Load Balancer (ALB)](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-ingress-about)

Reviewer 3: This overview section is packed with information, but I don't think it's doing a good job of explaining why users would want to set up this relatively complicated configuration. What is the goal here? If I'm understanding correctly, it is showing how to securely configure an application with a single entry point (the ALB domain name) where the services implementing the application are a mix of Istio and non-Istio services. Otherwise, if all the services are all Istio enabled, users would just use the gateway domain name, with no need for the ALB at all. Is that correct? I think it sort of eludes to that, but it doesn't say that clearly. If I'm understanding this correctly, I think even the title should be more along those lines (e.g., "Using an IKS ALB to securely access a partially Istio-enabled application".

Author: @frankbu 

> Otherwise, if all the services are all Istio enabled, users would just use the gateway domain name, with no need for the ALB at all.

Or the users still need some features of ALB and want to continue using it, even for Istio-enabled services. The blog post is intended for the users of IKS Ingress (ALB), they would know why they need to use ALB, which features they want.

Reviewer 4: Right - users want to continue using the default IKS nginx based ALB because it gives them features via annotations that are not available with Istio Gateways. Chaining the ALB -> Istio Gateway -> Istio enabled apps allows them in theory to have the best of both worlds, but they need to know how to enable mTLS between the ALB pods and the Istio gateway pods

on [IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service (IKS)](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/kubernetes-service/) to direct traffic to the Istio
ingress gateway, while securing the traffic between them using {{< gloss  >}}mutual TLS authentication{{< /gloss >}}.

When you use IKS without Istio, you may control your ingress traffic using the provided
ALB. This ingress-traffic routing is configured using a Kubernetes
[Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) resource with
[ALB-specific annotations](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-ingress_annotation). IKS provides a

> DNS domain name for each cluster. The domain name is in the following format: `<cluster_name>.<region>.containers.appdomain.cloud`, for example

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
DNS domain name for each cluster 
```

> `mycluster.us-south.containers.appdomain.cloud`. In addition to registering a DNS domain, IKS provides a TLS certificate

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 a TLS certificate
```

that matches the domain, and a private key for the certificate. IKS stores the certificates and the private key in a
[Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/).

> When you start using Istio in your IKS cluster, the recommended way is to use the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When you start using Istio in your IKS cluster, the recommended method to send traffic to your Istio enabled workloads is by using the
```

[Istio Ingress Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/) instead of using the
[Kubernetes Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/). One of the main reasons to use

> Istio ingress gateway is the fact the ALB provided by IKS will not be able to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Istio ingress gateway is the fact the ALB provided by IKS will not be able to
```

> communicate directly with the services inside the mesh when you enable Istio mutual TLS. During your transition to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
communicate directly with the services inside the mesh when you enable STRICT mutual TLS. During your transition to
```

having only Istio ingress gateway as your main entry point, you can continue to use the traditional Ingress for
non-Istio services while using the Istio ingress gateway for services that are part of the mesh.

> IKS provides a convenient way for clients to access Istio ingress gateway by letting you

Reviewer 4: This paragraph should be removed IMO as it talks about skipping the ALB and can distract the reader.

Reviewer 4: OK, I see why you talk about this. The instructions leverage both DNS entries. Maybe add a couple of sentences describing what the instructions are doing with these two DNS and their secrets?

> [register a DNS domain](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-loadbalancer_hostname) for the gateway's

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[register a new DNS subdomain](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-loadbalancer_hostname) for the Istio ingress gateway's NLB 
```

Author: IKS allows registering a new DNS subdomain for any load balancer/gateway (IKS calls such a load balancer/gateway "NLB"). So Istio ingress gateway is a kind of such "NLB", so NLB is redundant here and it is rather IKS-specific term anyway.

Author: Addressed by https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/5098/commits/5c88b59a3df44e4402a5c9fc546e056e8e5f8da7 and https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/5098/commits/858333f67cb58829beef92a8c923259903f4bdec . Left out NLB, the point of the sentence is that IKS allows you to register a new subdomain for the IP address of the Istio Ingress Gateway. It is just the general using of subdomains: you register a subdomain for an IP address, so you will be able to use that subdomain instead of typing the IP address.

IP with an IKS command. The domain is in the following [format](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-loadbalancer_hostname#loadbalancer_hostname_format): `<cluster_name>-<globally_unique_account_HASH>-0001.<region>.containers.appdomain.cloud`, for example `mycluster-a1b2cdef345678g9hi012j3kl4567890-0001.us-south.containers.appdomain.cloud`. In the same way as for the ALB domain, IKS provides a certificate and a private key,
storing them in another Kubernetes secret.

> In this blog post you configure the IKS Ingress ALB to direct traffic to the services inside an Istio service mesh

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This blog describes how you can configure the IKS Ingress ALB to direct traffic to the services inside an Istio service mesh
```

> through the Istio ingress gateway, while using mutual TLS authentication between ALB and the gateway. For the mutual TLS authentication, you configure ALB and the Istio ingress gateway to use the certificates and the keys provided by IKS.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
through the Istio ingress gateway, while using mutual TLS authentication between ALB and the gateway. For the mutual TLS authentication, you will configure ALB and the Istio ingress gateway to use the certificates and keys provided by IKS for ALB and NLB host names. You will use the NLB certificate as the server certificate for Istio ingress gateway and use the ALB certificate ALB as the client certificate of ALB . You then use a
[Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) certificate as the root for both client and server certificates.
```

Reviewer 2: make sure to add `the` before ALB (multiple instances of this throughout this blog), so always `the ALB` or `an ALB` etc

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/5098/commits/7adfa2fbb2fa2ce5f221c3ea05cfe12bc612c1a6.

Using certificates provided by IKS saves you the overhead of managing your own certificates for the connection between ALB and
the Istio ingress gateway.

> The traffic to the services without Istio sidecar can continue to flow as before, directly from ALB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Traffic to the services without an Istio sidecar can continue to flow as before directly from the ALB.
```

The diagram below exemplifies the described setting. It shows two services in the cluster, `service A` and `service B`.

> `service A` has Istio sidecar injected and it requires mutual TLS. `service B` has no Istio sidecar. `service B` can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`service A` has an Istio sidecar injected and requires mutual TLS. `service B` has no Istio sidecar. `service B` can
```

> be accessed by clients through the ALB, while ALB directly communicates with `service B`. `service A` can be also

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
be accessed by clients through the ALB, which directly communicates with `service B`. `service A` can be also
```

accessed by clients through ALB, but in this case the traffic has to pass through the Istio ingress gateway. Mutual
TLS authentication between ALB and the gateway is based on the certificates provided by IKS.
The clients can also access the Istio ingress gateway directly. IKS registers different DNS domains for ALB and for the
ingress gateway.

{{< image width="100%" link="./alb-ingress-gateway.svg" caption="A cluster with ALB and Istio ingress gateway" >}}

## Initial setting

1.  Create the `httptools` namespace and enable Istio sidecar injection:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create namespace httptools
    $ kubectl label namespace httptools istio-injection=enabled
    namespace/httptools created
    namespace/httptools labeled
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Deploy the `httpbin` sample to `httptools`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@ -n httptools
    service/httpbin created
    deployment.apps/httpbin created
    {{< /text >}}

> 1.  Enforce mutual TLS for the traffic to the services in

Reviewer 4: Suggest to remove creating this Policy and DR for httptools
1. Keep blog focused on the ALB -> Gateway
2. Policy not used in 1.5
3. DR not required with automtls

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/5098/commits/a99af4d702bece9f8749b89233366d345b5478b0. Enforcing mutual TLS was done to show why you need the traffic to go through the Istio Ingress Gateway - because of the mutual TLS. But, I guess, we can just explain it without actually enforcing it.

    `httptools`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httptools -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: authentication.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Policy
    metadata:
      name: default
    spec:
      peers:
      - mtls: {}
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Add a destination rule to instruct the sidecars to perform mutual TLS authentication when
    calling the services inside `httptools`:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n httptools -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: DestinationRule
    metadata:
      name: default
    spec:
      host: "*.httptools.svc.cluster.local"
      trafficPolicy:
        tls:
          mode: ISTIO_MUTUAL
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

## Create secrets for ALB and Istio ingress gateway

IKS generates a TLS certificate and a private key and stores them as a secret in the default namespace when you register

> a DNS domain for an external IP by the `ibmcloud ks nlb-dns-create` command. IKS stores the Application Load Balancer's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a DNS domain for an external IP by using the `ibmcloud ks nlb-dns-create` command. IKS stores the ALB's
```

certificate and private key also as a secret in the default namespace. You need these credentials to establish the

> identities the ALB and the Istio ingress gateway will present one to another during mutual TLS authentication between

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
identities that the ALB and the Istio ingress gateway will present during the mutual TLS authentication between
```

them. You configure the ALB and the Istio ingress gateway to exchange these certificates signed by their private keys,

> and to trust the certificates one of another.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and to trust the certificates of one another.
```

1.  Store the name of your cluster in the `CLUSTER_NAME` environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export CLUSTER_NAME=<your cluster name>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Store the domain name of your ALB in the `ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN` environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ ibmcloud ks cluster get --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME | grep Ingress
    Ingress Subdomain:              <your ALB ingress domain>
    Ingress Secret:                 <your ALB secret>
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN=<your ALB ingress domain>
    $ export ALB_SECRET=<your ALB secret>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Store the external IP of your `istio-ingressgateway` service in an environment variable.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export INGRESS_GATEWAY_IP=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
    $ echo INGRESS_GATEWAY_IP = $INGRESS_GATEWAY_IP
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Create a DNS domain for the IP of the Istio Ingress Gateway service:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ ibmcloud ks nlb-dns-create --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME --ip $INGRESS_GATEWAY_IP

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    $ ibmcloud ks nlb-dns create classic --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME --ip $INGRESS_GATEWAY_IP
```

    Host name subdomain is created as <some domain>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Store the domain name from the previous command in an environment variable:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export INGRESS_GATEWAY_DOMAIN=<the domain from the previous command>
    {{< /text >}}

1.  List the registered domain names:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ ibmcloud ks nlb-dnss --cluster $CLUSTER_NAME
    Retrieving host names, certificates, IPs, and health check monitors for network load balancer (NLB) pods in cluster <your cluster>...
    OK
    Hostname                          IP(s)                       Health Monitor   SSL Cert Status   SSL Cert Secret Name
    <your ingress gateway hostname>   <your ingress gateway IP>   None             created           <the matching secret name>
    ...
    {{< /text >}}

>     Wait until the status of the certificate (the third field) in the line that matches the IP of the Istio ingress

Reviewer 5: Believe this is actually the fourth field, not the third: 
```
        1.          2.               3.                        4.                            5.                                6. 
Hostname,IP(s),Health Monitor,SSL Cert Status,SSL Cert Secret Name,Secret Namespace 
```

Author: Fixed by https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/5098/commits/29a21c0cef9de5b6c20d1f4eeb555c1b40be7d81.

    You will have to recreate the secrets by rerunning the instructions of this section every time the secrets provided
    by IKS are updated. You may want to use scripts or operators to automate this and keep the
    secrets in sync.
    {{< /warning >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret tls istio-ingressgateway-certs --key ingress_gateway_certs/tls.key --cert trusted.crt
    $ kubectl create -n istio-system secret generic istio-ingressgateway-ca-certs --from-file=trustid-x3-root.pem
    $ kubectl create secret generic alb-certs -n istio-system --from-file=trusted.crt --from-file=alb_certs/client.crt --from-file=alb_certs/client.key
    secret "istio-ingressgateway-certs" created
    secret "istio-ingressgateway-ca-certs" created
    secret "alb-certs" created
    {{< /text >}}

## Configure a mutual TLS ingress gateway

In this section you configure the Istio ingress gateway to perform mutual TLS between external clients and the gateway.
You use the certificates and the keys provided to you for the ingress gateway and ALB.

1.  Define a `Gateway` to allow access on port 443 only, with mutual TLS:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    $ kubectl apply -n httptools -f - <<EOF
```

    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: default-ingress-gateway
    spec:
      selector:
        istio: ingressgateway # use istio default ingress gateway
      servers:
      - port:
          number: 443
          name: https
          protocol: HTTPS
        tls:
          mode: MUTUAL
          serverCertificate: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.crt
          privateKey: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-certs/tls.key
          caCertificates: /etc/istio/ingressgateway-ca-certs/trustid-x3-root.pem
        hosts:
        - "*"
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1. Configure routes for traffic entering via the `Gateway`:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    $ kubectl apply -n httptools -f - <<EOF
```

      http:
      - match:
        - uri:
            prefix: /status
        route:
        - destination:
            port:
              number: 8000
            host: httpbin.httptools.svc.cluster.local
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Delete the Istio Ingress Gateway's pod to reload the certificates:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete pod -l istio=ingressgateway -n istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Send a request to `httpbin` by _curl_, passing as parameters the client certificate
    (the `--cert` option) and the private key (the `--key` option):

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl https://$INGRESS_GATEWAY_DOMAIN/status/418 --cert alb_certs/client.crt  --key alb_certs/client.key

    -=[ teapot ]=-

       _...._
     .'  _ _ `.
    | ."` ^ `". _,
    \_;`"---"`|//
      |       ;/
      \_     _/
        `"""`
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Remove the directories with the ALB and ingress gateway certificates and keys.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ rm -r ingress_gateway_certs alb_certs trustid-x3-root.pem trusted.crt
    {{< /text >}}

## Configure ALB

You need to configure your Ingress resource to direct traffic to the Istio Ingress gateway while using the

> certificate stored in the `alb-certs` secret.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
certificate stored in the `alb-certs` secret. Normally, the ALB decrypts HTTPS requests before forwarding traffic to your apps. We can configure the ALB to re-encrypt the traffic before it is forwarded to the Istio ingress gateway by using the `ssl-services` annotation on the Ingress resource. This annotation also allows us to specify the certificate stored in the `alb-certs` secret, required for mutual TLS.
```

    order to forward the traffic to the Istio ingress gateway.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Ingress
    metadata:
      name: alb-ingress
      namespace: istio-system
      annotations:
        ingress.bluemix.net/ssl-services: "ssl-service=istio-ingressgateway ssl-secret=alb-certs"
    spec:
      tls:
      - hosts:
        - httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN
        secretName: $ALB_SECRET
      rules:
      - host: httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN
        http:
          paths:
          - path: /status
            backend:
              serviceName: istio-ingressgateway
              servicePort: 443
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Test the ALB ingress:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl https://httpbin.$ALB_INGRESS_DOMAIN/status/418

    -=[ teapot ]=-

       _...._
     .'  _ _ `.
    | ."` ^ `". _,
    \_;`"---"`|//
      |       ;/
      \_     _/
        `"""`
    {{< /text >}}

Congratulations! You configured IKS Ingress ALB to securely send traffic to Istio ingress gateway. You allocated a host

> name and certificate for your Istio ingress gateway and used that certificate as the server certificate for Istio

Reviewer 4: This is key information that should be described in the introduction as well.

ingress gateway. As the client certificate of ALB you used the certificate provided by IKS for ALB. You used the
[Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) certificate as the root for both client and server certificates. Once you had
the certificates deployed as Kubernetes secrets, you directed the ingress traffic from ALB to Istio ingress gateway for
some specific paths and used the certificates for mutual TLS authentication between ALB and Istio ingress gateway.

## Cleanup

1.  Delete the `Gateway` configuration, the `VirtualService`, and the secrets:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete ingress alb-ingress -n istio-system

>     $ kubectl delete virtualservice default-ingress

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    $ kubectl delete virtualservice default-ingress -n httptools
```

>     $ kubectl delete gateway default-ingress-gateway

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    $ kubectl delete gateway default-ingress-gateway -n httptools
```
